funasr/runtime/html5/readme.md, before:

# Html5 server for asr service

## Requirement
#### Install the modelscope and funasr
```shell
pip install -U modelscope funasr
# For the users in China, you could install with the command:
# pip install -U modelscope funasr -i https://mirror.sjtu.edu.cn/pypi/web/simple
git clone https://github.com/alibaba/FunASR.git && cd FunASR
```
#### Install the requirements for server
```shell
pip install flask
# pip install gevent (Optional)
# pip install pyOpenSSL (Optional)
```

### javascript (Optional)
[html5 recorder.js](https://github.com/xiangyuecn/Recorder)
```shell
Recorder 
```

## demo
<div align="center"><img src="./demo.gif" width="150"/> </div>

## Steps
### Html5 demo

```shell
usage: h5Server.py [-h] [--host HOST] [--port PORT] [--certfile CERTFILE] [--keyfile KEYFILE]
```
`e.g.`
```shell
cd funasr/runtime/html5
python h5Server.py --host 0.0.0.0 --port 1337 
```
### asr service
[detail for asr](https://github.com/alibaba-damo-academy/FunASR/tree/main/funasr/runtime/python/websocket)

`Tips:` asr service and html5 service should be deployed on the same device.
```shell
cd ../python/websocket
python wss_srv_asr.py --port 10095
```


### open browser to access html5 demo
```shell
https://127.0.0.1:1337/static/index.html
# https://30.220.136.139:1337/static/index.html
```

### modify asr address in html according to your environment
asr address in index.html must be wss


## Acknowledge
1. This project is maintained by [FunASR community](https://github.com/alibaba-damo-academy/FunASR).
2. We acknowledge [AiHealthx](http://www.aihealthx.com/) for contributing the html5 demo.

Commit message:

add html5 local access asr service directly (#654)

funasr/runtime/html5/readme.md, after:

# Html5 server for asr service

## Requirement
#### Install the modelscope and funasr
```shell
pip install -U modelscope funasr
# For the users in China, you could install with the command:
# pip install -U modelscope funasr -i https://mirror.sjtu.edu.cn/pypi/web/simple
git clone https://github.com/alibaba/FunASR.git && cd FunASR
```
#### Install the requirements for server
```shell
pip install flask
# pip install gevent (Optional)
# pip install pyOpenSSL (Optional)
```

### javascript (Optional)
[html5 recorder.js](https://github.com/xiangyuecn/Recorder)
```shell
Recorder 
```

## demo
<div align="center"><img src="./demo.gif" width="150"/> </div>

## Steps
### Html5 demo

```shell
usage: h5Server.py [-h] [--host HOST] [--port PORT] [--certfile CERTFILE] [--keyfile KEYFILE]
```
`e.g.`
```shell
cd funasr/runtime/html5
python h5Server.py --host 0.0.0.0 --port 1337 
```
### asr service
[detail for asr](https://github.com/alibaba-damo-academy/FunASR/tree/main/funasr/runtime/python/websocket)

`Tips:` asr service and html5 service should be deployed on the same device.
```shell
cd ../python/websocket
python wss_srv_asr.py --port 10095
```


### open browser to access html5 demo
```shell
https://127.0.0.1:1337/static/index.html
# https://30.220.136.139:1337/static/index.html
```

### open browser to open html5 file directly without h5Server
you can run html5 client by just clicking the index.html file directly in your computer.
1) lauch asr service without ssl, it must be in ws mode as ssl protocol will prohibit such access.
2) copy whole directory /funasr/runtime/html5/static to your computer
3) open /funasr/runtime/html5/static/index.html by browser
4) enter asr service ws address and connect


```shell

```
 


## Acknowledge
1. This project is maintained by [FunASR community](https://github.com/alibaba-damo-academy/FunASR).
2. We acknowledge [AiHealthx](http://www.aihealthx.com/) for contributing the html5 demo.
